####-I had to find you. Your father could not remember his own name when he gave me
the  paper,  and  he  never  told  me  yours;  so  on  the  whole  I  think  I  ought  to  be
praised and thanked. Here it is," said he handing the map to Thorin.
"I don't understand," said Thorin, and Bilbo felt he would have liked to say the
same. The explanation did not seem to explain.
"Your  grandfather,"  said  the  wizard  slowly  and  grimly,  "gave  the map  to  his
son for safety before he went  to  the mines of Moria. Your father went away  to  try
his  luck with  the map after your grandfather was killed; and  lots of adventures of
a  most  unpleasant  sort  he  had,  but  he  never  got  near  the  Mountain. How  he  got
there  I  don't  know,  but  I  found  him  a  prisoner  in  the  dungeons  of  the
Necromancer."
"Whatever  were  you  doing  there?"  asked  Thorin  with  a  shudder,  and  all  the
dwarves shivered.
"Never  you  mind.  I  was  finding  things  out,  as  usual;  and  a  nasty  dangerous
business it was. Even I, Gandalf, only just escaped. I tried to save your father, but
it  was  too  late.  He  was  witless  and  wandering,  and  had  forgotten  almost
everything  except  the  map  and  the  key."  "We  have  long  ago  paid  the  goblins  of
Moria,"  said  Thorin;  "we  must  give  a  thought  to  the  Necromancer."  "Don't  be
absurd! He is an enemy quite beyond the powers of all the dwarves put together, if
they could all be collected again from the four corners of the world. The one thing
your  father  wished  was  for  his  son  to  read  the map  and  use  the  key.  The  dragon
and the Mountain are more than big enough tasks for you!"
"Hear, hear!" said Bilbo, and accidentally said  it aloud, "Hear what?"  they all
said  turning  suddenly  towards  him,  and  he  was  so  flustered  that  he  answered
"Hear what I have got to say!" "What's that?" they asked.
"Well, I should say that you ought to go East and have a look round. After all
there  is  the Side-door, and dragons must sleep sometimes, I suppose. If you sit on
the  doorstep  long  enough,  I daresay you will  think of  something. And well, don't
you  know,  I  think  we  have  talked  long  enough  for  one  night,  if  you  see  what  I
mean.  What  about  bed,  and  an  early  start,  and  all  that?  I  will  give  you  a  good
breakfast before you go."
"Before  we  go,  I  suppose  you  mean,"  said  Thorin.  "Aren't  you  the  burglar?
And isn't sitting on the door-step your job, not to speak of getting inside the door?
But  I agree about bed and breakfast.  I  like eggs with my ham, when starting on a
journey: fried not poached, and mind you don't break 'em."
After  all  the  others  had  ordered  their  breakfasts  without  so  much  as  a  please
(which  annoyed  Bilbo  very much),  they  all  got  up.  The  hobbit  had  to  find  room

####-for  them  all,  and  filled  all  his  spare-rooms  and  made  beds  on  chairs  and  sofas,
before  he  got  them  all  stowed  and  went  to  his  own  little  bed  very  tired  and  not
altogether  happy. One  thing  he  did make  his mind  up  about was  not  to  bother  to
get up very early and cook everybody else's wretched breakfast. The Tookishness
was  wearing  off,  and  he  was  not  now  quite  so  sure  that  he  was  going  on  any
journey  in  the morning.  As  he  lay  in  bed  he  could  hear  Thorin  still  humming  to
himself in the best bedroom next to him:


Far over the misty mountains cold
To dungeons deep and caverns old
We must away, ere break of day,
To find our long-forgotten gold.


Bilbo went  to  sleep with  that  in  his  ears,  and  it  gave  him  very  uncomfortable
dreams. It was long after the break of day, when he woke up.

####-Chapter 2
<br>
Roast Mutton
<br>

Up jumped Bilbo, and putting on his dressing-gown went into the dining-room.
There he saw nobody, but all the signs of a large and hurried breakfast. There was
a  fearful  mess  in  the  room,  and  piles  of  unwashed  crocks  in  the  kitchen.  Nearly
every pot and pan he possessed seemed to have been used. The washing-up was so
dismally real that Bilbo was forced to believe the party of the night before had not
been part of his bad dreams, as he had rather hoped. Indeed he was really relieved
after  all  to  think  that  they  had  all  gone  without  him,  and  without  bothering  to
wake him up ("but with never a thank-you" he thought); and yet in a way he could
not help feeling just a trifle disappointed. The feeling surprised him.
"Don't be a fool, Bilbo Baggins!" he said  to himself, "thinking of dragons  and
all  that  outlandish  nonsense  at  your  age!"  So  be  put  on  an  apron,  lit  fires,  boiled
water,  and  washed  up.  Then  he  had  a  nice  little  breakfast  in  the  kitchen  before
turning  out  the  dining-room. By  that  time  the sun was shining; and  the front door
was  open,  letting  in  a  warm  spring  breeze.  Bilbo  began  to  whistle  loudly  and  to
forget about the night before. In fact he was just sitting down to a nice little second
breakfast  in  the  dining-room by  the open window, when  in walked Gandalf.  "My
dear  fellow,"  said  he,  "whenever  are  you  going  to  come?  What  about  an  early
start?-and here you are having breakfast, or whatever you call  it, at half past  ten!
They left you the message, because they could not wait."
"What message?" said poor Mr. Baggins all in a fluster.
"Great Elephants!" said Gandalf, "you are not at all yourself this morning-you
have never dusted the mantel- piece!"
"What's  that  got  to  do  with  it?  I  have  had  enough  to  do  with  washing  up  for
fourteen!"
"If  you  had  dusted  the  mantelpiece  you  would  have  found  this  just under  the
clock,"  said  Gandalf,  handing  Bilbo  a  note  (written,  of  course,  on  his  own  note-
paper).
This is what he read:


"Thorin and Company to Burglar Bilbo greeting!
For  your  hospitality  our  sincerest  thanks,  and  for  your  offer  of
professional assistance our grateful acceptance. Terms: cash on delivery, up to
and  not  exceeding  one  fourteenth  of  total  profits  (if  any);  all  traveling

####-expenses  guaranteed  in  any  event;  funeral  expenses  to  be  defrayed  by  us  or
our representatives, if occasion arises and the matter is not otherwise arranged
for.
"Thinking  it  unnecessary  to  disturb  your  esteemed  repose,  we  have
proceeded  in  advance  to  make  requisite  preparations,  and  shall  await  your
respected person at the Green Dragon Inn, Bywater, at II a.m. sharp. Trusting
that you will be punctual.

"We have the honour to remain
                                  "Yours deeply
                                              "Thorin& Co."


"That leaves you just ten minutes. You will have to run," said Gandalf.
"But—" said Bilbo.
"No time for it," said the wizard.
"But—"said Bilbo again.
"No time for that either! Off you go!"
To  the  end  of  his  days  Bilbo  could  never  remember  how  he  found  himself
outside,  without  a  hat,  walking-stick  or  say  money,  or  anything  that  he  usually
took  when  he  went  out;  leaving  his  second  breakfast  half-finished  and  quite
unwashed-up,  pushing  his  keys  into  Gandalf's  hands,  and  running  as  fast  as  his
furry  feet  could  carry  him  down  the  lane,  past  the  great Mill,  across  The Water,
and then on for a whole mile or more. Very puffed he was, when he got to Bywater
just  on  the  stroke  of  eleven,  and  found  he  had  come  without  a  pocket-
handkerchief!
"Bravo!" said Balin who was standing at the inn door looking out for him.
Just  then  all  the  others  came  round  the  corner  of  the  road  from  the  village.
They were on ponies, and each pony was  slung about with all kinds of baggages,
packages, parcels, and paraphernalia. There was a very small pony, apparently for
Bilbo.
"Up you two get, and off we go!" said Thorin.
"I'm  awfully  sorry,"  said Bilbo,  "but  I  have  come without my  hat,  and  I  have
left my pocket-handkerchief behind, and I haven't got any money. I didn't get your
note until after 10.45 to be precise."
"Don't  be  precise,"  said  Dwalin,  "and  don't  worry!  You will  have  to manage
without pocket-handkerchiefs, and a good many other things, before you get to the
journey's end. As for a hat, I have got a spare hood and cloak in my luggage."
####-That's  how  they  all  came  to  start,  jogging  off  from  the  inn  one  fine  morning
just  before  May,  on  laden  ponies;  and  Bilbo  was  wearing  a  dark-green  hood  (a
little  weather-stained)  and  a  dark-green cloak borrowed  from Dwalin. They were
too large for him, and he looked rather comic. What his father Bungo would have
thought of him, I daren't think. His only comfort was he couldn't be mistaken for a
dwarf, as he had no beard.
They had not been riding very long when up came Gandalf very splendid on a
white  horse.  He  had  brought  a  lot  of  pocket-handkerchiefs,  and Bilbo's  pipe  and
tobacco.  So  after  that  the  party  went  along  very  merrily,  and  they  told  stories  or
sang  songs  as  they  rode  forward  all  day,  except  of  course  when  they  stopped  for
meals. These didn't  come quite  as often  as Bilbo would have  liked  them, but  still
he began to feel that adventures were not so bad after all. At  first they had passed
through  hobbit-lands,  a  wild  respectable  country  inhabited  by  decent  folk,  with
good  roads,  an  inn  or  two,  and  now  and  then  a  dwarf  or  a  farmer  ambling  by  on
business.  Then  they  came  to  lands where people  spoke  strangely,  and  sang  songs
Bilbo  had  never  heard  before.  Now  they  had  gone  on  far  into  the  Lone-lands,
where  there were  no  people  left,  no  inns,  and  the  roads  grew  steadily worse. Not
far  ahead were  dreary  hills,  rising  higher  and  higher, dark with trees. On some of
them  were  old  castles  with  an  evil  look,  as  if  they  had  been  built  by  wicked
people.  Everything  seemed  gloomy,  for  the  weather  that  day  had  taken  a  nasty
turn. Mostly  it  had  been  as  good  as May  can  be,  even  in  merry  tales, but now  it
was  cold  and  wet.  In  the  Lone-lands  they  had  to  camp  when  they  could,  but  at
least  it  had  been  dry.  "To  think  it  will  soon  be  June,"  grumbled  Bilbo  as  he
splashed  along  behind  the  others  in  a  very  muddy  track.  It  was  after  tea-time;  it
was  pouring with  rain, and had been all day; his hood was dripping  into his eyes,
his cloak was full of water;  the pony was  tired and stumbled on stones;  the others
were  too  grumpy  to  talk.  "And  I'm  sure  the  rain  has  got  into  the  dry  clothes  and
into  the  food-bags," thought Bilbo. "Bother burgling and everything to do with it!
I wish  I was at home  in my nice hole by  the  fire, with  the kettle  just beginning  to
sing!" It was not the last time that he wished that!
Still  the  dwarves  jogged  on,  never  turning  round  or  taking  any  notice  of  the
hobbit.  Somewhere  behind  the  grey  clouds  the  sun  must  have  gone  down,  for  it
began  to  get  dark.  Wind  got  up,  and  the  willows  along  the  river-bank  bent  and
sighed. I don't know what river it was, a rushing red one, swollen with the rains of
the  last  few  days,  that  came  down  from  the  hills  and mountains  in  front  of  them.
Soon it was nearly dark. The winds broke up the grey clouds, and a waning moon
appeared  above  the  hills  between  the  flying  rags.  Then  they  stopped,  and  Thorin