Splash the wine on every door!

Dump the crocks in a boiling bawl;
Pound them up with a thumping pole;
And when you've finished, if any are whole,
Send them down the hall to roll !

That's what Bilbo Baggins hates!
So, carefully! carefully with the plates!


And  of  course  they  did  none  of  these  dreadful  things,  and  everything  was
cleaned  and  put  away  safe  as  quick  as  lightning,  while  the  hobbit  was  turning
round  and  round  in  the middle of  the kitchen  trying  to  see what  they were doing.
Then  they  went  back,  and  found  Thorin  with  his  feet  on  the  fender  smoking  a
pipe. He was  blowing  the most  enormous  smoke-rings, and wherever he  told one
to  go,  it  went-up  the  chimney,  or  behind  the  clock  on  the  man-telpiece,  or  under
the  table,  or  round  and  round  the  ceiling;  but  wherever  it  went  it  was  not  quick
enough  to escape Gandalf. Pop! he  sent a  smaller  smoke-ring from his short clay-
pipe  straight  through  each  one  of  Thorin's.  The  Gandalf's  smoke-ring  would  go
green  and  come  back  to  hover  over  the  wizard's  head.  He  had  quite  a  cloud  of
them  about  him  already,  and  in  the  dim  light  it  made  him  look  strange  and
sorcerous. Bilbo stood still and watched-he loved smoke-rings-and then be blushed
to think how proud he had been yesterday morning of the smoke-rings he had sent
up the wind over The Hill.
"Now for some music!" said Thorin. "Bring out the instruments!"
Kili  and  Fili  rushed  for  their  bags  and  brought  back  little  fiddles; Dori, Nori,
and Ori brought out flutes from somewhere inside their coats; Bombur produced a
drum  from  the  hall; Bifur  and Bofur went  out  too,  and  came  back with  clarinets
that they had left among the walking-sticks Dwalin and Balin said: "Excuse me, I
left  mine  in  the  porch!"  "Just  bring  mine  in  with  you,"  said  Thorin.  They  came
back with  viols  as  big  as  themselves,  and with  Thorin’s  harp wrapped  in  a  green
cloth.  It was  a  beautiful  gold-en harp, and when Thorin struck it the music began
all  at  once,  so  sudden  and  sweet  that Bilbo  forgot everything else, and was  swept
away  into dark  lands under  strange moons,  far over The Water and very  far  from
his hobbit-hole under The Hill.
The dark came into the room from the little window that opened in the side of
The  Hill;  the  firelight  flickered-it  was  April-and  still  they  played  on,  while  the
shadow of Gandalf's beard wagged against the wall.

####-The  dark  filled  all  the  room,  and  the  fire  died  down,  and  the  shadows  were
lost,  and  still  they  played  on.  And  suddenly  first  one  and  then  another  began  to
sing  as  they  played,  deep-throated  singing  of  the  dwarves  in  the  deep  places  of
their ancient homes; and this is like a fragment of their song, if it can be like their
song without their music.


Far over the misty mountains cold
To dungeons deep and caverns old
We must away ere break of day
To seek the pale enchanted gold.

The dwarves of yore made mighty spells,
While hammers fell like ringing bells
In places deep, where dark things sleep,
In hollow halls beneath the fells.

For ancient king and elvish lord
There many a gloaming golden hoard
They shaped and wrought, and light they caught
To hide in gems on hilt of sword.

On silver necklaces they strung
The flowering stars, on crowns they hung
The dragon-fire, in twisted wire
They meshed the light of moon and sun.

Far over the misty mountains cold
To dungeons deep and caverns old
We must away, ere break of day,
To claim our long-forgotten gold.

Goblets they carved there for themselves
And harps of gold; where no man delves
There lay they long, and many a song
Was sung unheard by men or elves.

The pines were roaring on the height,
The winds were moaning in the night.
The fire was red, it flaming spread;
The trees like torches biased with light,

The bells were ringing in the dale
And men looked up with faces pale;

####-The dragon's ire more fierce than fire
Laid low their towers and houses frail.

The mountain smoked beneath the moon;
The dwarves, they heard the tramp of doom.
They fled their hall to dying -fall
Beneath his feet, beneath the moon.

Far over the misty mountains grim
To dungeons deep and caverns dim
We must away, ere break of day,
To win our harps and gold from him!


As they sang the hobbit felt the love of beautiful things made by hands and by
cunning and by magic moving through him, a fierce and jealous love, the desire of
the  hearts  of  dwarves.  Then  something  Tookish  woke  up  inside  him,  and  he
wished  to  go  and  see  the  great  mountains,  and  hear  the  pine-trees  and  the
waterfalls, and explore the caves, and wear a sword instead of a walking-stick. He
looked  out  of  the  window.  The  stars  were  out  in  a  dark  sky  above  the  trees.  He
thought  of  the  jewels  of  the  dwarves  shining  in  dark  caverns.  Suddenly  in  the
wood  beyond  The  Water  a  flame  leapt  up--probably  somebody  lighting  a  wood-
fire-and he thought of plundering dragons settling on his quiet Hill and kindling it
all  to  flames. He  shuddered;  and  very  quickly  he was  plain Mr.  Baggins  of  Bag-
End, Under-Hill, again.
He got up trembling. He had less than half a mind to fetch the lamp, and more
than  half  a  mind  to  pretend  to,  and  go  and  hide  behind  the  beer  barrels  in  the
cellar,  and  not  come  out  again  until  all  the  dwarves  had  gone  away. Suddenly  he
found that the music and the singing had stopped, and they were all looking at him
with eyes shining in the dark.
"Where  are  you  going?"  said  Thorin,  in  a  tone  that  seemed  to  show  that  he
guessed both halves of the hobbit's mind.
"What about a little light?" said Bilbo apologetically.
"We like the dark," said the dwarves. "Dark for dark business! There are many
hours before dawn."
"Of  course!"  said Bilbo,  and  sat down  in  a hurry. He missed  the  stool  and  sat
in the fender, knocking over the poker and shovel with a crash.
"Hush!" said Gandalf. "Let Thorin speak!" And this is bow Thorin began.
"Gandalf,  dwarves  and Mr. Baggins! We  are  not  together  in  the  house  of  our
friend  and  fellow  conspirator,  this  most  excellent  and  audacious  hobbit-may  the

####-hair  on  his  toes  never  fall  out!  all  praise  to  his  wine  and  ale!-"  He  paused  for
breath  and  for  a  polite  remark  from  the  hob-bit,  but  the  compliments were  quite
lost on-poor Bilbo Baggins, who was wagging his mouth in protest at being called
audacious  and worst  of  all  fellow  conspirator,  though  no  noise  came  out,  he was
so flummoxed. So Thorin went on:
"We  are  met  to  discuss  our  plans,  our  ways,  means,  policy  and  devices.  We
shall soon before the break of day start on our long journey, a journey from which
some  of  us,  or  perhaps  all  of  us  (except  our  friend  and  counsellor,  the  ingenious
wizard Gandalf) may never return. It is a solemn moment. Our object is, I take it,
well known  to us all. To  the estimable Mr. Baggins, and perhaps  to one or  two of
the  younger  dwarves  (I  think  I  should  be  right  in  naming  Kili  and  Fili,  for
instance), the exact situation at the moment may require a little brief explanation-"
This was  Thorin's  style. He was  an  important  dwarf.  If  he  had  been  allowed,
he  would  probably  have  gone  on  like  this  until  he  was  out  of  breath,  without
telling  any  one  there  'anything  that  was  not  known  already.  But  he  was  rudely
interrupted. Poor Bilbo couldn't bear  it any  longer. At may never  return he began
to feel a shriek coming up  inside, and very soon  it burst out  like  the whistle of an
engine coming out of a tunnel. All the dwarves sprang Bp knocking over the table.
Gandalf struck a blue  light on  the end of his magic staff, and  in  its firework glare
the poor little hobbit could be seen kneeling on the hearth-rug, shaking like a jelly
that was melting. Then he fell flat on  the floor, and kept on calling out  "struck by
lightning,  struck  by  lightning!"  over  and  over  again;  and  that  was  all  they  could
get  out  of  him  for  a  long  time.  So  they  took  him  and  laid  him  out  of  the way  on
the drawing-room sofa with a drink at his elbow, and they went back to their dark
business.
"Excitable  little  fellow,"  said  Gandalf,  as  they  sat  down  again.  "Gets  funny
queer  fits,  but  he  is  one  of  the  best,  one  of  the  best-as  fierce  as  a  dragon  in  a
pinch."
If  you  have  ever  seen  a  dragon  in  a  pinch,  you will  realize  that  this was  only
poetical  exaggeration  applied  to  any  hobbit,  even  to Old Took's  great-granduncle
Bullroarer, who was so huge (for a hobbit)  that he could ride a horse. He charged
the  ranks  of  the  goblins  of  Mount  Gram  in  the  Battle  of  the  Green  Fields,  and
knocked  their  king  Gol-firnbul's  head  clean  off  with  a  wooden  club.  It  sailed  a
hundred  yards  through  the  air  and  went  down  a  rabbit  hole,  and  in  this  way  the
battle was won and the game of Golf invented at the same moment.
In the meanwhile, however, Bullroarer's gentler descendant was reviving in the
drawing-room.  After  a  while  and  a  drink  he  crept  nervously  to  the  door  of  the

####-parlour. This is what he heard, Gloin speaking: "Humph!" (or some snort more or
less  like  that).  "Will  he  do,  do  you  think?  It  is  all  very  well  for Gandalf  to  talk
about  this hobbit being  fierce, but one  shriek  like  that  in a moment of excitement
would be enough  to wake  the dragon and all his  relatives, and kill  the  lot of us.  I
think it sounded more like fright than excitement! In fact, if it bad not been for the
sign  on  the  door,  I  should  have  been  sure  we  had  come  to  the  wrong  house.  As
soon  as  I  clapped  eyes  on  the  little  fellow  bobbing  and  puffing  on  the mat,  I  had
my doubts. He looks more like a grocer-than a burglar!"
Then Mr. Baggins  turned  the handle and went in. The Took side had won. He
suddenly  felt  he would  go without  bed  and  breakfast  to  be  thought  fierce. As  for
little  fellow  bobbing  on  the  mat  it  almost  made  him  really  fierce.  Many  a  time
afterwards  the  Baggins  part  regretted  what  he  did  now,  and  he  said  to  himself:
"Bilbo, you were a fool; you walked right in and put your foot in it."
"Pardon me," he said, "if I have overheard words that you were saying. I don't
pretend  to  understand  what  you  are  talking  about,  or  your  reference  to  burglars,
but  I  think  I  am  right  in  believing"  (this  is  what  he  called  being  on  his  dignity)
"that you  think  I am no good.  I will show you.  I have no signs on my door-it was
painted  a  week  ago-,  and  I  am quite  sure you have  come  to  the wrong house. As
soon as  I  saw  your  funny  faces  on  the  door-step,  I had my doubts. But  treat  it as
the right one. Tell me what you want done, and I will try it, if I have to walk from
here  to  the East of East and fight  the wild Were-worms in the Last Desert. I bad a
great-great-great-granduncle once, Bullroarer Took, and —"
"Yes, yes, but  that was  long ago," said Gloin. "I was  talking about you. And I
assure  you  there  is  a  mark  on  this  door-the  usual  one  in  the  trade,  or used  to be.
Burglar  wants  a  good  job,  plenty  of  Excitement  and  reasonable  Reward,  that's
how  it  is  usually  read.  You  can  say  Expert  Treasure-hunter  instead of Burglar  if
you like. Some of them do. It's all the same to us. Gandalf told us that there was a
man of  the  sort  in  these parts  looking  for  a  Job  at once,  and  that he had arranged
for a meeting here this Wednesday tea-time."
"Of course there is a mark," said Gandalf. "I put it there myself. For very good
reasons. You asked me to find the fourteenth man for your expedition, and I chose
Mr. Baggins.  Just  let  any one say I chose the wrong man or the wrong house, and
you can stop at  thirteen and have all  the bad  luck you  like, or go back  to digging
coal."
He  scowled  so  angrily  at Gloin  that  the  dwarf  huddled  back  in  his  chair;  and
when  Bilbo  tried  to  open  his  mouth  to  ask  a  question,  he  turned  and  frowned  at
him and stuck oat his bushy eyebrows, till Bilbo shut his mouth tight with a snap.