####-"That's  right,"  said  Gandalf.  "Let's  have  no  more  argument.  I  have  chosen  Mr.
Baggins  and  that  ought  to  !6te  enough  for  all  of  you.  If  I  say  he  is  a  Burglar,  a
Burglar he is, or will be when the time comes. There is a lot more in him than you
guess,  and  a  deal  more  than  he  has  any  idea  of  himself.  You  may  (possibly)  all
live to thank me yet. Now Bilbo, my boy, fetch the lamp, and let's have little light
on this!"
On  the  table  in  the  light  of  a  big  lamp  with  a  red  shad  he  spread  a  piece  of
parchment rather like a map.
"This was made  by  Thror,  your  grandfather,  Thorin,  he  said  in  answer  to  the
dwarves' excited questions. "It is a plan of the Mountain."
"I  don't  see  that  this  will  help  us  much,"  said  Thorin  disappointedly  after  a
glance. "I remember the Mountain well enough and the lands about it. And I know
where Mirkwood is, and the Withered Heath where the great dragons bred."
"There  is  a dragon marked  in  red on  the Mountain,  said Balin,  "but  it will be
easy enough to find him without that, if ever we arrive there."
"There  is one point  that you haven't noticed,"  said  the wizard,  "and  that  is  the
secret  entrance.  You  see  that  rune  on  the  West  side,  and  the  hand  pointing  to  it
from the other runes?** That marks a hidden passage to the Lower Halls.
"It may  have  been  secret  once,"  said  Thorin,  "but  how  do  we  know  that  it  is
secret  any  longer?  Old  Smaug  had  lived  there  long  enough  now  to  find  out
anything there is to know about those caves."
"He may-but he can't have used it for years and years. "Why?"
"Because  it  is  too  small.  'Five  feet  high  the  door  and  three may walk  abreast'
say  the  runes,  but  Smaug  could  not  creep  into  a  hole  that  size,  not even when he
was  a  young  dragon,  certainly  not  after  devouring  so  many  of  the  dwarves  and
men of Dale."
"It  seems  a  great  big  hole  to me,"  squeaked Bilbo  (who  had  no  experience  of
dragons  and  only  of  hobbit-holes) He was getting excited and  interested  again, so
that he forgot to keep his mouth shut. He loved maps, and in his hall there hung a
large  one  of  the  Country  Round with  all  his  favourite walks marked  on  it  in  red
ink.  "How  could  such  a  large  door  be  kept  secret  from  everybody  outside,  apart
from the dragon?" he asked. He was only a little hobbit you must remember.
"In lots of ways," said Gandalf. "But in what way this one has been hidden we
don't  know  without  going  to  see.  From  what  it  says  on  the  map  I  should  guess
there  is  a  closed  door  which  has  been  made  to  look  exactly  like  the  side  of  the


** Look at the maps with this book, and you will see the runes there.



####-Mountain. That is the usual dwarves' method- I think that is right, isn't it?" "Quite
right," said Thorin.
"Also," went on Gandalf, "I forgot  to mention  that with  the map went a key, a
small and curious key. Here it is!" he said, and handed to Thorin a key with a long
barrel and intricate wards, made of silver. "Keep it safe!"
"Indeed  I  will,"  said  Thorin,  and  he  fastened  it  upon  a  fine  chain  that  hung
about his neck and under his jacket. "Now things begin to look more hopeful. This
news alters them much for-the better. So far we have had no clear idea what to do.
We  thought  of  going  East,  as  quiet  and  careful  as  we  could,  as  far  as  the  Long
Lake. After that the trouble would begin."
"A long time before that, if I know anything about the loads East," interrupted
Gandalf.
"We might go from there up along the River Running," went on Thorin taking
no  notice,  "and  so  to  the  ruins  of Dale-the old  town  in  the valley  there, under  the
shadow  of  the Mountain. But we  none of us liked the idea of the Front Gate. The
river  runs  right out of  it  through  the great  cliff  at  the South of  the Mountain,  and
out of it comes the dragon too-far too often, unless he has changed."
"That  would  be  no  good,"  said  the  wizard,  "not  without  a  mighty  Warrior,
even  a  Hero.  I  tried  to  find  one;  but  warriors  are  busy  fighting  one  another  in
distant  lands,  and  in  this  neighbourhood  heroes  are  scarce,  or  simply  lot  to  be
found.  Swords  in  these  parts  are  mostly  blunt,  and  axes  are  used  for  trees,  and
shields  as  cradles  or  dish-covers;  and  dragons  are  comfortably  far-off  (and
therefore  legendary).  That  is  why  I  settled  on  burglary-especially  when  I
remembered the existence of a Side-door. And here is our little Bilbo Baggins, the
burglar,  the  chosen  and  selected  burglar.  So  now  let's  get  on  and  make  some
plans."
"Very  well  then,"  said  Thorin,  "supposing  the  burglar-expert  gives  us  some
ideas or suggestions." He turned with mock-politeness to Bilbo.
"First  I  should  like  to  know  a  bit  more  about  things,"  said  he,  feeling  all
confused and a bit shaky inside, but so far still lookishly determined to go on with
things.  "I mean  about  the  gold  and  the  dragon,  and  all  that,  and  how  it  got  there,
and who it belongs to, and so on and further."
"Bless  me!"  said  Thorin,  "haven't  you  got  a  map?  and  didn't  you  hear  our
song? and haven't we been talking about all this for hours?"
"All  the  same,  I  should  like  it  all plain  and  clear,"  said he obstinately, putting
on  his  business  manner  (usually  reserved  for  people  who  tried  to  borrow money
off him),  and doing his best  to  appear wise  and prudent  and professional  and  live

####-up  to Gandalf's  recommendation. "Also  I  should  like  to know about  risks, out-of-
pocket  expenses,  time  required  and  remuneration,  and  so  forth"-by  which  he
meant: "What am I going to get out of it? and am I going to come back alive?"
"O  very  well,"  said  Thorin.  "Long  ago  in  my  grandfather  Thror's  time  our
family  was  driven  out  of  the  far  North,  and  came  back  with  all  their  wealth  and
their tools to this Mountain on the map. It had been discovered by my far ancestor,
Thrain the Old, but now they mined and they tunnelled and they made huger halls
and greater workshops  -and  in  addition  I  believe  they  found  a  good  deal  of  gold
and a great many  jewels  too. Anyway they grew immensely rich and famous, and
my  grandfather  was  King  under  the  Mountain  again  and  treated  with  great
reverence  by  the  mortal  men,  who  lived  to  the  South,  and  were  gradually
spreading  up  the  Running  River  as  far  as  the  valley  overshadowed  by  the
Mountain.  They  built  the merry  town  of  Dale  there  in  those  days.  Kings  used  to
send  for  our  smiths,  and  reward  even  the  least  skilful most  richly.  Fathers would
beg  us  to  take  their  sons  as  apprentices,  and  pay  us  handsomely,  especially  in
food-supplies, which we  never  bothered  to  grow  or  find  for  ourselves. Altogether
those were good days for us, and the poorest of us had money to spend and to lend,
and leisure to make beautiful things just for the. fun of it, not to speak of the most
marvellous  and  magical  toys,  the  like  of  which  is  not  to  be  found  in  the  world
now-a-days.  So  my  grandfather's  halls  became  full  of  armour  and  jewels  and
carvings and cups, and the toy-market of Dale was the wonder of the North.
"Undoubtedly  that  was  what  brought  the  dragon.  Dragons  steal  gold  and
jewels, you know, from men and elves and dwarves, wherever they can find them;
and  they  guard  their  plunder  as  long  as  they  live  (which  is  practically  forever,
unless they are killed), and never enjoy a brass ring of it. Indeed they hardly know
a  good  bit  of  work  from  a  bad,  though  they  usually  have  a  good  notion  of  the
current market value; and they can't make a thing for themselves, not even mend a
little  loose  scale of  their armour. There were  lots of dragons  in  the North  in  those
days, and gold was probably getting scarce up there, with the dwarves flying south
or  getting  killed,  and  all  the  general  waste  and  destruction  that  dragons  make
going  from  bad  to  worse.  There  was  a  most  specially  greedy,  strong  and  wicked
worm called Smaug. One day he flew up into the air and came south. The first we
heard of  it was a noise  like a hurricane coming from  the North, and  the pine-trees
on  the  Mountain  creaking  and  cracking  in  the  wind.  Some  of  the  dwarves  who
happened  to  be  outside  (I  was  one  luckily  -a  fine  adventurous  lad  in  those  days,
always wandering about, and it saved my life that day)-well, from a good way off
we saw the dragon settle on our mountain in a spout of flame. Then he came down

####-the slopes and when he reached the woods they all went up in fire. By that time all
the bells were  ringing  in Dale and  the warriors were arming. The dwarves  rushed
out  of  their  great  gate;  but  there was  the  dragon waiting  for  them. None  escaped
that way.  The  river  rushed  up  in  steam  and  a  fog  fell  on Dale, and  in  the  fog  the
dragon came on them and destroyed most of the warriors-the usual unhappy story,
it was only too common in those days. Then he went back and crept in through the
Front  Gate  and  routed  out  all  the  halls,  and  lanes,  and  tunnels,  alleys,  cellars,
mansions  and passages. After  that  there were no dwarves  left  alive  inside,  and he
took  all  their  wealth  for  himself.  Probably,  for  that  is  the  dragons'  way,  he  has
piled it all up in a great heap far inside, and sleeps on it for a bed. Later he used to
crawl  out  of  the  great  gate  and  come  by  night  to  Dale,  and  carry  away  people,
especially maidens, to eat, until Dale was ruined, and all the people dead or gone.
What goes on there now I don't know for certain, but I don't suppose anyone lives
nearer to the Mountain than the far edge of the Long Lake now-a-days.
"The  few  of  us  that  were  well  outside  sat  and  wept  in  hiding,  and  cursed
Smaug;  and  there we were unexpectedly  joined by my  father  and my grandfather
with singed beards. They looked very grim but they said very little. When I asked
how  they had got away,  they  told me  to hold my  tongue, and said  that one day  in
the proper time I should know. After that we went away, and we have had to earn
our  livings  as  best we  could  up  and  down  the  lands,  often enough sinking as  low
as  blacksmith-work  or  even  coalmining.  But  we  have  never  forgotten  our  stolen
treasure. And even now, when I will allow we have a good bit laid by and are not
so  badly  off"-here Thorin  stroked  the gold  chain  round his neck-"we still mean to
get it back, and to bring our curses home to Smaug-if we can.
"I  have  often  wondered  about  my  father's  and  my  grandfather's  escape.  I  see
now  they  must  have  had  a  private  Side-door  which  only  they  knew  about.  But
apparently  they made a map, and  I  should  like  to know how Gandalf got hold of
it, and why it did not come down to me, the rightful heir."
"I did not 'get hold of it,' I was given it," said the wizard.
"Your grandfather Thror was killed, you  remember,  in  the mines of Moria by
Azog the Goblin —"
"Curse his name, yes," said Thorin.
"And  Thrain  your  father  went  away  on  the  twenty-first  of  April,  a  hundred
years ago last Thursday, and has never been seen by you since—"
"True, true," said Thorin.
"Well,  your  father  gave me  this  to  give  to  you;  and  if  I have  chosen my own
time and way of handing it over, you can hardly blame me, considering the trouble